---
title: Nov 9th, 2020
---

## I can add things to this rep. I can add, for example, this alternative to [[Roam Research]].
:PROPERTIES:
:custom_id: 5faa0aef-ca3c-4c45-b422-37efdec9b287
:END:
### ((5faa0aef-ca3c-4c45-b422-37efdec9b287))
##
## What else can I do that I can do in Roam?
## [[Nov 13th, 2020]]
### This is as good as Roam, so far.
### {{{embed ((5faa0aef-ca3c-4c45-b422-37efdec9b287)) }}}
### There isn't anything I can't do here that I can't do on Roam, or is there?
#### LATER what?
:PROPERTIES:
:later: 1604979618157
:END:
#### DONE This is a thing I need to do.
:PROPERTIES:
:todo: 1604979639497
:done: 1605325820440
:END:
#### DONE What is this thing?
:PROPERTIES:
:done: 1604979648137
:END:
#### One thing I can't do on this page is filter anything.
## DEADLINE: <2020-11-10 Tue 22:43>
## DEADLINE: <2020-11-09 Mon 22:44> This thing is due.
## [[Amina Farahat]]
### Following the narration of its protagonist, Nidali, from a short scene after she is born in Boston, to her childhood in Kuwait, to being forced out due to Iraqi invasion during the Gulf War and experiencing the heights of her adolescence in the United States, Randa Jarrar’s 2008 debut novel A Map of Home willfully affirms connection through incohesion. Nidali is constantly displaced, forced to move from Kuwait - to Jordan - to Egypt - to the U.S., with a few other stops along the way, throughout the course of the novel. Absent from this list is Palestine -- the home country of her father, and a loss echoed throughout the novel. Palestine/Palestinianness is present through memory and stories, but primarily in the act of being constantly displaced, of being denied a right to return. It is also present in the longing of her father for a life and career he never was able to achieve, and which he - many times, violently - projects onto Nidali (whose name directly translates to “My Struggle”). Interwoven with this loss is Jarrar’s traversing of the body as resistance, as that which her characters can accessibly resist with. The “return” of Nidali and her family to the U.S. in the latter half of the novel at surface can read as signaling resolution, yet is the cause of, and only further heightens, diasporic tension.
### The project I propose asks the following [[questions]]: What does it mean for Jarrar to tell a “pre-9/11” Arab/American coming of age story in a “post-9/11” era? What effect do these markers of time along with American narratives of [[survivorship]], community, and rebuilding following 9/11 have on how Jarrar conveys trauma in her novel? How does her text refute and/or complicate this notion of a “return” -- and, with it, a linear understanding of healing, of belonging, of finding home? Moreover, how is this refusal embedded and explicated in Nidali’s sexual coming into being; how do abuse and pleasure work alongside one another to produce an uncomfortable, uncanny embodied awareness of the self, and of nation/nationality?
###
### What is of interest to me is the challenge Jarrar poses to dichotomies of trauma and healing. Examined within the context of this story being written and told through retrospective memory, and within an era with more of an awareness of the Middle East as a presence, discourse around resolve seems at times affectively neutralized under the guise of American collectivism. Conflict - national, internal, or otherwise - becomes a concern for “them,” not for “us.” Jarrar unsettles this complacency in exploring the ways that Nidali finds herself, and yet remains unknown to herself. In other words, how her coming into being is in tune with this trauma of displacement and the abuse at the hand of her father, and with how this coincides with her sexual coming of age -- of processing and knowing from her body. Jarrar’s point then, as I argue, is not for Nidali to ultimately arrive at a place of being “settled” in herself and the identities she encompasses, but rather to reflect how her constant state of flux is intricately connected to her habitation of those identities. That those identities - for better or worse - depend on being constantly unsettled to survive.
