---
title: Nov 13th, 2020
---

## The editor works much better now, they say. What does that mean?
### LATER This is what?
:PROPERTIES:
:later: 1605324272658
:done: 1605324271368
:END:
## 22:30
### [[Letter of Recommendation]] for [[Rachel Greenwald Smith]]
#### Friday, November 13, 2020
To the evaluation committee:
It is my pleasure to write in support of Rachel Greenwald Smith’s application for a Howard Foundation Fellowship.
I have known Dr. Smith for more than a decade. In that time, I have read almost all of her published scholarship; I have contributed a chapter to a collection of scholarly essays that she edited for Cambridge University Press; and I have had the pleasure of editing an essay of hers for the Los Angeles Review of Books, where I served as a Humanities editor. 
Dr. Smith has distinguished herself as one of the best cultural critics of her generation. Her first book, Affect and American Literature in an Age of Neoliberalism (Cambridge University Press, 2015), is an important contribution to scholarship on contemporary U.S. literature. The book brings together a sophisticated understanding of debates about neoliberal economic theory with an inquiry into the role that affect plays in our cultural life. Drawing on a range of affect theory, Dr. Smith distinguishes between what she calls “personal feelings” and “impersonal feelings,” and she traces the presence and significance of these different registers of feeling across a range of novels and poetry, showing how affect interacts with widespread concepts of subjectivity and personhood, and making a case for the value of impersonal feelings as a register of how we experience life under neoliberalism. This analysis includes astute readings of work by authors such as Richard Powers, Lydia Millet, Ben Marcus, Karen Tei Yamashita, and others. Affect and American Literature in an Age of Neoliberalism was written for a specialized audience of academic literary scholars, but nonetheless it’s accessibly written and a pleasure to read; Dr. Smith explores a range of philosophically, politically, and aesthetically complex questions in lucid and engaging prose. In this project, she already gives evidence that she views criticism as an important art form in its own right.
This conviction is also in evidence in the LARB essay she wrote for me, “Tiny Books of the Resistance.” This was a review essay on a number of books, printed in pamphlet-like formats, that were published in the wake of the election of Donald Trump. These “tiny books,” Dr. Smith’s essay argues, present themselves as if they are part of the wave of resistance to Trump, as if they are radical political manifestos, but they are also reticent to take a firm stance on specific ideological questions. Instead, these authors substitute a hazy reverence for legal procedure, democratic institutions, and liberal norms for more specific commitments. The “tininess” of their physical formats are, she playfully suggests, emblematic of the tininess of their political courage: indeed, these authors are paradigmatic of a political world that fears radicalism, extremism, and uncompromising conviction. Unable to offer an alternative vision of politics, such books do not so much resist Trump as perpetuate the very listless, technocratic neoliberal ideology that failed to prevent him from gaining power in the first place. To be sure, Smith’s thesis here is provocative, but her essay is beautifully written, sharply defended, and often very funny, and its confrontational style of argument gives a bracing preview of her forthcoming book. 
This book, On Compromise: Essays on Art and Democracy, promises to be a major work of public criticism and memoir. I suspect that it will be a serious—and controversial—contribution to our political conversation about the status of democracy in an age of rising authoritarianism. I base this judgment on a 100-page sample of the book that I have read (as well as the proposal for the book). On Compromise is currently divided into three broad sections, one on the concept of “compromise,” both as a political ideal and as an aesthetic category. This section argues that the tendency of recent avant-garde artists, literary critics, and editors to celebrate compromise is symptomatic of a world in which holding fast to extreme commitments is seen as aesthetically and politically dangerous. Her next section discusses the concept of polarization in relation to controversies within the world of avant-garde poetics, and the way that the avant-garde, so long a home to provocation and extreme gestures, has found itself more recently defending itself in terms of free speech and the demand that critics be reasonable and measured. Here, Dr. Smith notes a growing cleavage between liberalism and democracy. That is, those who defend liberal ideals often find themselves standing in opposition to democratic institutions, and those who want to defend democracy have found it harder and harder to embrace liberal institutions and values. The historical alliance between liberalism and democracy, so characteristic of the End of History in the 1990s, may finally be coming to an end, with complex consequences. The third section of On Compromise investigates the category of “authority” and the way that various artists and political thinkers have, on the one hand, tried to reject the category of authority, but on the other have found themselves unable wholly to give it up. 
While this summary gives some sense of the scope and ambition of Dr. Smith’s book, only a close engagement with the actual text of her project offers a true sense of how deftly she integrates all of these themes, writing in a way that at the same time speaks to academic specialists and to a broader reading audience. Dr. Smith mixes close readings of artworks, investigations of political theory, as well as memoir and personal essay. The clearest signal of Dr. Smith’s ambition is that her book is under forthcoming from Graywolf Press, which is one of the most exciting small publishing companies in the US today, which tends to publish works of literary nonfiction that are widely celebrated—and widely read. On Compromise will be an important book that will bring the insights of a top literary scholar, who is at the same time a gifted essayist, to a broad audience, and will help us make sense of the prospects for a genuinely democratic culture in an age of authoritarianism that has challenged dominant liberal narratives of progress.
Her new book project, which she is proposing for the Howard Fellowship, looks to continue Dr. Smith’s development as a public intellectual and prominent critical voice in the world of creative nonfiction. Kapo: Studies on Authority, Self-Policing, and Survival promises to be an illuminating and disturbing exploration of profound political and personal questions of complicity, co-optation, and betrayal. I believe that a Howard Fellowship would be instrumental in helping Dr. Smith complete this project. She previously received an ACLS Ryskamp Fellowship in 2015, which allowed her to complete a first draft of On Compromise. She would make good use of the fellowship and in conjunction with her sabbatical would be able to complete a draft of this new book in a timely manner.
If you have any questions about Dr. Smith or her writing, please do not hesitate to contact me.
Sincerely,

Lee Konstantinou
Associate Professor of English
University of Maryland, College Park
##
